add a CONTRIBUTING Guide (#336)
psychoinformatics-de/datalad-concepts: CONTRIBUTING.md

# CONTRIBUTING

Thanks for contributing!
We welcome any and all kinds of contribution, including:
- bug fixes and code contributions
- ideas for new features
- testing
- documentation improvements
- general suggestions on how we can do better
- ...

## Development environment setup

This project is using [hatch](https://hatch.pypa.io), a modern Python project manager.
Please refer to their [official documentation](https://hatch.pypa.io/latest/install/) for installation instructions for your system.

After installation, you can use ``hatch`` to execute specific tasks, which are defined in ``pyproject.toml`` (see individual subheadings below).
Alternatively, ``hatch`` can provide you with a development shell with the necessary packages:

```
hatch shell
```

Presently, this work require a patched linkml installation.
The patch(es) are listed in `patches/`.
The script `tools/patch_linkml` documents how they need to be applied.
This script can be used to patch a local installation, and is also executed in the actions that validate the included data models.
In order to apply the patch, run

```
bash tools/patch_linkml

> ```

Reviewer: `hatch` is patching automatically on post-install. This should likely be reworded to an info item and mention that it happens.

An example data file corresponds to a class from the schema file.
The file organization looks as follows:

```
src
└── schema-name
    ├── unreleased
    │   ├── examples        <- contains data that gets validated
    │   │   ├── class-name.json
    │   │   ├── class-name.rdf
    │   │   └── class-name.yaml     <- starting format
    │   ├── extra-docs
    │   │   └── about.md
    │   └── validation       <- files with required configurations
    │       ├── class-name.invalid.cfg.yaml
    │       └── class-name.valid.cfg.yaml      
    └── unreleased.yaml             <- the schema file
```

The command 

```
hatch run check:examples
```

performs the following: It 

- validates example data within ``examples`` according to configurations in ``validation``
- converts example ``.yaml`` data into ``.json`` and ``.rdf``

For other formats, e.g., ``ttl``, ``linkml-convert`` can be used to convert data from one form to another, following a schema:

```
hatch shell
linkml convert -o ds.ttl -s src/flat-data/unreleased.yaml --target-class-from-path --infer src/flat-data/unreleased/examples/Dataset-1.yaml
```

## Useful hints for a contribution workflow

> * Patches get regularly updated, and they are not applied automatically in your hatch environments. If in doubt, wipe the environment and re-create it, for example using ``hatch env prune``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Patches get regularly updated, and they are not re-applied automatically in an existing hatch environments. If in doubt, wipe the environment and re-create it, for example using ``hatch env prune``.
```
